Hello everyone and welcome to the logistic regression project solutions lecture video is probably going
to be the first part of a series of solutions video lectures for the logistic regression project.
Let's go ahead and get started by jumping to our studio.
All right.
So here in our studio.
First thing we have to make sure is that you have the adult underscore Souled Out CSB that adult salary
see every file in your working directory or just know the entire path to it so you can pass it in.
The first thing we had to do is actually read in the CSP file.
Hopefully by now you're pretty comfortable doing this.
And then let's go ahead and check the head of adults and explore it a bit.
Let's run that push this over to the Rykes we won't be using it for now.
And you're in the summertime so we use all that console space.
Here we go.
So what do we notice here.
We have the age of the adult.
The type of employer this SNL WGC column that column stands for final sampling weight.
You can go ahead and check out the U.S. Census Web site for more information on what that actually is
.
But let's go ahead and focus on things that are easier to just interpret directly such as education
level education which is basically a number of their educational level.
They also have some mercial data whether they were married or never married divorce etc..
Occupation which is another factor level feature relationship their race their gender or sex capital
gain capital loss.
Hours worked per week country and income.
Something to notice right away is that we basically accidentally have a double indexing of this X column
.
That's pretty common.
If you're writing and reading CSFB files with our and forgetting to ignore the index it will automatically
place an index where you can go ahead and remove that with the plier
you can just say call library the player and then set adults to select pasand the data frame adult.
And we can either put in all the columns you want to select or put negative signs against the column
.
We don't want to select and that we'll go ahead and get rid of it.
You can go ahead and also check out the structure of the data sets as well as on the go and just as
the summary of the data set as well.
It's going to run that right.
We hear we have about thirty two thousand thirty two thousand five hundred sixty one observations of
15 variables.
Some of them are factors which make sense.
Others are not which are most of them also make sense.
Something to note here is that a lot of these columns have a ton of factor levels something like country
with 42 factor levels is going to be a large amount of levels to actually be useful for logistic regression
.
Something we all want to do is try to use feature engineering to reduce the number of levels some single
digit count is OK.
But usually when you're looking at double digit factor levels you may want to consider feature engineering
to actually group some of these levels together and we'll explore how to do that through data cleaning
.
Let's go ahead and use table to check out the frequency of the type employer column.
They're going to show you how to do that.
I'm going to switch over to doing a lot of things in the con..
So keep that in mind.
I'm going to use table on the type employer and essentially get a frequency count.
Here we want to know is how many know values are there for type underscore employer.
What are the two smallest groups.
Well we have 100 way about one thousand eight hundred thirty six no values.
In this case the knowledge is represented by a question marks.
Keep that in mind it's not an actual and a it's a question mark.
That means it's a string that's just a question mark.
We'll have to transform it to an end a later on if we want it to be null and then we also have two small
groups never worked which is seven without pay which is 14.
It'll be nice to actually combine never works with without pay.
And combine these two small groups into a single group called unemployed because basically if you're
if you're never works or if you're not being paid you're essentially unemployed.
There's lots of ways to do this so feel free to get creative as far as joining these groups together
.
I'm going to go ahead and use a function to join them.
Let's go ahead and switch back to the script and say This section is called data cleaning.
First thing I want to do is
combine employer type
I'm going to create a function called an MP you can call it whatever you want and it will take in some
variable job.
And what I'm going to do is go ahead and make sure that job is a character and I can do that by just
stating let me expand this a little bit by stating job is now equal to as character Job and this ensures
me that it's a character that we can do string comparisons so I can do something like this now I'll
say if the job is equal to the string never works.
So if it's equal to this or and we use that pipe operator job is equal to without pay
or return unemployed
else what we're going to do is just return
the actual job itself and then we're going to apply this to the type employer column.
Let's go ahead and then do that.
Scroll down a bit and create some more lines here.
Say apply.
Type employer as supply call adult type employer and apply the an amp which is SAS for unemployed and
then let's go ahead and print outs adults type employer.
Just to make sure that worked and let's print out the actual table of this that we can see the frequency
count.
So keep in mind this is the previous one.
We have never worked without pay.
Hopefully after applying this function and we call that same table we will see these to combine to an
unemployed column.
Let's go ahead and run that.
Okay perfect 7 plus 14 is 21.
Now and implied that these are both unemployed variables instead of never working without pay.
Since you are doing it now is feature engineering slash data cleaning because we're reducing the number
of factory levels which will hopefully make our code more efficient later on and easier to interpret
.
There are some other columns that are suitable for combining such as the state and local government
jobs into a category maybe for local government and maybe self-employed jobs as well.
So we have self amp ink and self Ampe not Inc.
So self-employed incorporated self-employed not incorporated.
However these are both still self-employment.
Let's go ahead and do a similar process to join the self-employment columns and then let's go ahead
and join local government and state government.
This is going to be a really similar job to this function.
So I'm going to go ahead and copy those functions from the notes we remove that.
Let's go ahead.
In group self employed and states and local.
I'm going to go ahead and copy and paste the function here.
This function is essentially doing the exact same thing as you did earlier except for checking for different
character strings.
Something to keep in mind that this function is I'm no longer saying job as that character because I
know since I already applied the on ramp function.
Every job is already as a character and I can check that by using structure.
So I don't have to call that anymore so I skip that line and I say if job is to go to a local government
job or state government job go ahead and return s l Pashka which is going to stand for state local government
job or else the job is self-employed incorporated or self-employed not incorporated.
Go ahead and just return the basic label self dashed empy else return job.
Let's go ahead and then apply that means we're gonna say adult type employer as apply adult type employer
.
And this one's called Group MP and let's go ahead and recheck that table.
I will say Prince table of adults type employer.
Let's run this now expand the council a little bit so you can see it.
OK looking good.
We have the federal government jobs private jobs self-employed jobs state and local government jobs
and unemployed people.
Perfect.
Let's go ahead and leave this column alone for an Now we'll come back to it later on.
Dealing with missing data points.
But now let's go ahead and look at the Marchal column.
You go ahead to label that part of the script will say group self-employed apply.
Combine employer types just so it's a nice label.
This falls under data cleaning combine employer types and now we're going to say
marital status stat says and do a similar thing I'm going to go ahead and say Prince we can actually
do this straight in the con..
Check out the table of adults marital.
OK.
What do we have here we have divorced people never married people separated people widowed people marry
their spouses absent married and they live with their spouse et cetera.
What we want to do is just reduce this to three basic groups married not married and never married.
And we're going to do a very similar operation just by using a function and applying it to our column
.
I want to go in and copy and paste function so don't waste a bunch of time just rewriting the notes
Let's walk through this function before we actually apply it here.
I created a function called Group underscore marital and marital thing you want to pronounce it it takes
in their status transforms it to a character and then checks if they're not married if they're separated
divorced or widowed That means they are currently not married if they're never been married.
We just check if they have been married and we apply that label never married since that's already a
label we're just going to go ahead and return as they are.
Otherwise if they're not separated divorced widowed or never been married then they are married either
happily or unhappily so we'll go ahead and continue on by applying this
and it creates some new lines as you can see our our code is starting to get quite a few lines in it
.
So just keep that in mind and where we're going to go out and do say adult marital supply.
Passen the funk.
The column that we want to affect and then the function that we just created and we'll go ahead and
do a quick check by printing out the table of that column.
Go ahead and run this.
Okay perfect.
We were able to transform all of these factors into three factors.
Married never married and not married.
Let's go ahead and continue this sort of data cleaning aspect.
Hopefully you realize the theme here.
Basically create a function and apply it in trying to reduce the number of factors.
This case we're going to check out the country column.
Let's start by moving over to the con. And just performing at the table off of the country column.
OK.
You can see here that this was one of the ones I had the most levels we have countries from all over
the world.
What we want to do is group these countries together and you can group them in any way you see fit.
I gave you flexibility here because there's really no right or wrong way.
One possible way to do it is grouping by continents.
You should be able to reduce number of groups here significantly though.
Go ahead and explore the different ways you could group these.
I grouped them by more or less continents.
Except I also made an exception exception that of North America or South America.
I did North America versus Latin and South America.
I'm going to go ahead and copy the groups I did and walk through this grouping or this particular application
of data cleaning first thing I did was I created vectors based off of the names of the countries.
And this took a while because it kind of had a manually type them out.
I just copied and pasted from this table and grouped them into Asia category North America category
Europe category Latin and South America category and that other category.
I couldn't tell what South was as a label.
There was a South column here few years 80 countries and South but I'm not sure what that was.
So I went ahead instead of putting them to Asia North America Europe or Latin and South America.
I just put them on other other.
Maybe if you wanted to you could continue to further split up these groups.
Maybe you have a West Europe versus an Eastern Europe because of the factors of England France and Germany
are usually different than countries such as Poland or Hungary Yugoslavia I should mention the state
assets are quite old from about 1996 and then we also have Latin and South America.
Maybe you could have separated it to Latin America and South Americas two separate groups you could
have done Asia as Middle East versus East Asia etc..
Here I just did some pretty simple groupings.
Hopefully that works out.
Let's go ahead and apply this and I use the in operator to save some typing space.
I want to go ahead and copy from the notes the actual apply function for the countries.
That means I created a function called Group underscore country.
It takes in the city or Y the country value and essentially shuts about it just a bunch of if an ELSE
IF statements checking if the country is in one of these vectors that I created is going to check if
it's in Asia.
If it is it returns Asia checks if it's in North America etc..
Europe Latin and South America.
Otherwise it just returns other.
That means there's actually no check to check if it's an other.
It just doesn't else statement for that in case we miss anything.
It just goes under other.
Let's go ahead and apply it.
I'm going to go ahead and say adults country lips as apply and I'm going to go out and say adults country
and the name of a function was Group country and then I'm going to confirm that the groupings actually
work by just printing out the table of adults underscore a country.
Let's go ahead and run this.
See if it worked out.
Something to note is that basically every time I'm running it I'm performing all the operations just
listed in the script.
So I get slower and slower as we add more functions to this.
But it's not going to slow down too much.
All right perfect we were able to reduce this to just five groups of Asia Europe Latin and South America
North America and other verses.
All of these various countries that also didn't have too many data points within them separately but
grouped together we can actually get substantial amounts of data points in each one.
And hopefully that's better for our logistic regression model later on.
Let's go ahead and check the structure of adults again
just doing this in the con..
And if we take notice here the columns we affected such as type employer and country and the marital
status have all been changed to character columns.
But we're going to want to do is go ahead and call factor on these columns to refactor them and make
sure they don't have these old levels but these new ones that we created it's that I'm going to go ahead
and just copy the code for this from the notebook where essentially just applying factor and I should
note there's only two ways to do this.
You can just call factor on the column or you can use as apply on a factor.
There are essentially the same thing.
Previously we've done it with the factory method you just call factor on the column itself but you can
also do as apply and factor.
Either way it works.
I just want to show you that there's multiple ways of doing it.
Usually I would probably just call the factor function itself but I want to show you what's possible
with a supply by calling it this way.
And then finally we'll go ahead and print the structure of adults again just to make sure it works.
If we take a look at adult right now we can see we have these character columns.
Let's run the script from the source.
Check out that print statement.
It's going to print out the structure and a little bit.
There it is.
And we noticed that we now have the factor of six levels and country is a factor of five levels and
the marriage satisfactory or three levels.
Perfect.
That's exactly what it wanted to occur.
We could do still play around with education occupation to try to reduce number of factors for those
columns.
But for now go ahead and move on to dealing with missing data in part two of this logistic regression
project.
Feel free to group those columns as well and see how they affect your model.
It's totally up to you on how much you actually want to clean and mess around this data and perform
feature engineering on it.
For instance there's still quite a few factors in education and there's still quite a few factors in
occupation as well.
They're both still in double digits.
I'll leave them like this for now.
It's not a huge deal to leave him in like that but you can go ahead and explore play around with and
clean your data a little more.
All right.
Hopefully that was helpful to you.
Let's just do a very quick brief overview of everything we just did.
We went ahead and read in our data we dropped that repeated index and then essentially we've only been
cleaning our data so far by combining factory levels so that they're a little simpler to understand
a little more interpretable and also so we have more data points per factor level.
Okay thanks everyone and I will see you at the next lecture